
# Docker Run

`docker run centos`

This command will run the centos image locally, if the image is not available locally it is going to pull the image from docker hub.

## Docker Run -tag

if you the command 

`docker run redis`

Then docker will be going to pull and run the latest image of redis from docker hub. Docker considers the tag to be **`latest`**.

So, what if you want to run another version of redis, for example an older version of redis. In that case, we have to use something called as **tag**. 

`docker run redis:4.0` 

After the **`:`** we are specifying the version of redis which we like to run. Docker, in this case will going to pull the image of redis having the version 4.0.


## Docker Run -STDIN

Docker containers by default does not listen to a _standard input_. In order to provide the input to the docker container, we have make the docker container interactive. Also, we have to attach a pesudo terminal to the docker container.

`docker run -it  'container_name'`

**`-it`**, where **`i`** is for interactive and **`t`** is for pesudo terminal


## Docker Run -PORT MAPPING

Suppose you are running web application inside a docker container. You will have a internal IP address which is assigned to the docker container. You can access the application through the internal IP address when you are inside the docker container.

If you like to access the application outsite the docker container i.e. from the docker host then you need to use something called **PORT MAPPING**. To make it work you have to map the port inside the docker container to free port on docker host.

`docker run -p host_port:container_port "container_name"`
`docker run -p 80:4000 webapp`

In this way, you can run multiple instances of the web app on different docker host ports. 

## Docker Run - Volume Mapping (Data Persistent)

Docker containers have it's own isolated file system. Suppose, you are running a mysql instance inside a docker container

`docker run mysql`

You have dumped tons of data inside the mysql db and after data dumping you have stopped the container a removed the container. In this case, all the data dump will be lost.

`docker stop mysql`
`docker rm mysql`

If you like to persist the data, you have to map a directory outside of the container.

`docker run -v host_dir_path:container_dir_path "container_name"`


## Docker Inspect Container

`docker inspect container_name`

## Docker containers logs

`docker logs container_name`






